All right, so we're coming up on the end of our techniques that we can use with the collect method
here.
And so I think possibly the last major technique that I want to show you covers another interesting
scenario.
Now this scenario is sort of, in my mind, kind of a hybrid between the filter function of the Streams
API and the Grouping Bay.
And so let me give you a scenario here.
So first off, let me just get rid of this collect bit here.
We'll come back to that shortly, and let's say that we just wanted to filter these people by gender.
OK, let's say that we only want the women, right?
So we could do something like P Arrow, P Dot gender.
Equals F. Right?
And then we could do whatever with that.
Maybe we could do it for each or something like that.
OK, now I'm not going to clean up the errors here because I'm just showing you this for illustrative
purposes, right?
So we're all familiar with how to use Filter now.
Right?
So this would filter through only the women, right?
Only those people marked with a gender of F.
And then we could do whatever we wanted with them.
But the items in our stream that are men, they would just go away, right?
We just wouldn't see them.
They'd get literally filtered out.
Now, what if we wanted to use this type of expression, but we didn't want to lose the men, right?
We wanted to still have both.
Well, now you're kind of getting back into kind of a grouping situation right where you're sort of
still grouping by gender in this particular case, right?
The thing, though, is that with the grouping by function, you could have more than just two options,
right?
You could have a whole slew of options, such as grouping by state right into in the United States,
we have 50 states plus D.C. and so you would get presumably like 50 one groupings, if you will.
Right.
But when you're filtering, it's a Boolean operation.
Either you have a match or you don't have a match, right?
But with a filter, you're going to lose the items that did not match that filter.
So if you wanted to do almost the same thing as the filter, but you don't want to lose the items that
didn't match, there's a function for that.
As as we now know, there's a function for everything with the Streams API.
And so that's what we're going to take a look at now.
Having said that, let me delete this filter.
And I will recommend out that for each.
And I'm going to bring back the collect call here and now I'm going to introduce you to another collector
function, and this one is called partition.
So just as we can do a grouping by, we can also do a partitioning by.
And it's really straightforward.
It pretty much is, like I said, a hybrid of the filter function and the grouping by function.
OK.
So as you see here in its little in the description for it, in fact, it takes a predicate.
A predicate is an interface that takes an input and returns a boolean a true or false right.
And so the filter method takes a predicate.
And as you see here, the first input to this partitioning by function is also a predicate.
OK.
And so the same kinds of lambda expressions and method references that we can pass into a filter.
We can also pass into a partitioning by now.
One of the big differences between the filter versus the partitioning by is that the filter simply returns
a modified stream that does not contain whatever items didn't pass muster for the predicate, right?
But with a partitioning by just like a grouping by, it actually returns a map, and that map will always
have no more than two groupings, right?
The items that did match the predicate and then the items that didn't match the predicate.
That's really it.
So let's give this a shot.
So we'll do the same situation here.
We'll we'll we'll partition by gender, OK, so we'll have our people and then we can say where the
people's gender.
Equals.
Female, right?
Now, I could just stop right here, and if I were to do so, what this would, this would behave very
similarly to the grouping by where you only pass in just the one input in that it would return a map
where the keys in this particular case would be true or false.
OK.
And then the values would be, by default, a list of all the people.
OK, so that's what we would get from this.
And in fact, let's go ahead and just take a look at that real quick.
So as you see, we're getting the red marks again, and that's because the return type doesn't match
what this would would return.
So if I put my cursor over here and do an option, enter, I can have the ID e change the return type.
And so you see right here it returns a map of a Boolean to list of people, right?
So the true and the false.
And then for each grouping of true or false, you're going to get a list of the people right.
So you'll get one list of the women and another list of the men.
All right.
Oh, and before we run this, we're probably going to want to limit our results because again, this
will be five million records.
So I'm going to uncomment our limit.
And I don't know, let's do maybe two hundred.
All right.
And so then let's run this, OK, so now we see that we've got a key of false and then we've got a bunch
of people, right?
So here's one person, Damian.
And another person, Walker, and so on and so forth.
I don't know that I'm going to be able to find where the ladies are in this easily.
I guess I could maybe try doing a search for true.
There it is.
OK.
Well, yeah, I can find them.
So the true would be all of the women, right?
Because true matches with this expression here, this predicate that we passed in right where gender
equals four female right, so true.
So these would be all of the women.
And in fact, we see female names now, Elizabeth and uh.
Argentina, huh?
I didn't know that could be a lady's name, Imogene or Imogene, hey, associata bond and so on and
so forth.
So these are all the ladies, right?
So there you go there.
That's how that can work.
Now, of course, we can get a little more sophisticated, just like we can with the grouping by and
pretty much it works the same way, right?
So if we don't want the list of people, but instead we want to reduce them down to other values like
let's do count, right, let's let's see how many men and how many women there are.
Let's do that.
All right.
So to determine the counts of the count of men versus women.
All we need to do here is go down to the partitioning function and now we're going to add in an additional
collector.
Right.
So just like we would have done with the grouping by, we can put a comma here and then specify a collector.
So let's see.
What we will do is use the.
Counting collector.
And in this particular case, it's as easy as that, right, because we are we're not doing anything
with any fields or anything like that, we're just going to count the total number of items from the
stream per partition or grouping.
Right.
And now you see that we've got the red areas again because now we're not going to return a mapping of
Boolean to a list of people.
It will now presumably be a mapping of a Boolean to an integer or along, probably along.
Let's see.
So if I put my cursor here and see if we can have the ADP fix that for us, there we go.
Yes, it's a.
And the way I could kind of guess that it was going to be along is the fact that I've told you before.
Generally speaking, in Java, when you're counting items and especially you don't really know how many
items there might be, the default tends to be to use a long for that type of situation or scenario.
All right.
And let's see.
And now that we're just counting and we're not actually going to print out the items, I don't think
we need this limit anymore.
Now, you know, now that we're reducing the lists of people down to just a count of two numbers, right?
So I don't think we need this limit anymore.
This should go fairly quickly.
And so let's run it and see.
All right, there we go.
And so what do we have there?
Two point four, nine million men, I think it is.
And two point five million women.
So there you go.
All right.
So that's how you could do that.
And then the last scenario that I want to show is kind of the granddaddy of them.
We can actually use partitioning and grouping together.
Right?
Because really any any function that you can use, any any collector function really can be utilized
in this second spot here, right?
So let's say.
So currently, we're partitioning by gender.
So let's also secondarily partition by state.
OK.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to delete that counting by animal to make a new line here, just
so I have a little more space to think, right, so we're going to do a grouping by and let's see.
So the first thing we're going to give is the classifier, which you should now know is just a function
or a method reference or a lambda where we can specify the field essentially that we want to be grouping
by.
Right.
So in this particular case, we can simply use a method reference of the person class for the state.
All right.
So here we are doing grouping by the state and then I don't know now if I left it right here, we'd
get a map of a map of states and then the list of people.
So we'd be back to the business of having those lists of people.
We don't want that.
Let's reduce those lists down to something again, right?
So let's just do the count again.
So we will count the people by state, by gender.
OK.
So to do that then will simply pop over here and then use the counting collector method again.
Collector function again.
All right.
And so now we've got red squiggles again.
And let's see if the ID will clean that up for us.
Yes, it will.
And so we'll have it do that.
And so now you see here that we're getting a mapping of a Boolean to a map and then the secondary map
is a mapping of strings, which are the states and then long, which is the count, right?
All right.
And so then we can run that.
So here we are.
So first, we have got the men.
And so there are, what, eight thousand one hundred two men in Hawaii?
Is the D. Delaware?
I think Texas.
So yeah, and then we can jump over to the women.
So let's see.
That would be true.
And there we go, so there are the number of women by state as well.
All right.
So.
That is how you can use partitioning.
Like I said, it's very similar to grouping and you can actually mix and match both of them.
And you could also keep going with the partitioning.
So as I showed with grouping, you can actually nest layers of grouping.
You could actually do the same with partitioning as well.
And then all of the other bits work pretty much the same way between the two of them.
All right.
So that's going to wrap up this lesson on partitioning, and I will see you in the next one.